"Hi, my name is Cornell Brooks.
We're working in the NIH in the clinical center
in the department of laboratory medicine.
Right now we're studying hematological cancer,
so blood leukemia, specifically acute myeloid
leukemia.
I'm from Woodridge, Virginia.
I live in Woodridge, Virginia, and I've always
sort of been passionate about science since
I was about in high school, but really I started
really loving science when my dad made me
read this book about Ben Carson.
Ben Carson is the first neurosurgeon to successfully
separate two siamese twins who were conjoined
at the head.
That really sort of got me really active and
engaged in science.
Essentially what happens in these leukemias
is that you have stem cells, blood stem cells,
and all these cells grow and develop into
any sort of cell.
They have a target cell.
Somewhere along this development there's a
mistake, essentially, and they stop in development.
These sort of mistake cells end up developing
and over-developing and taking over the blood,
to the point where all the good cells in your
body, like your immune system cells, your
platelets, all are, essentially, they no longer
can survive in your blood.
These patients will have, will be immunodeficient.
They'll easily bruise, very vulnerable to
disease, bleed excessively.
These are all problems of leukemia.
You have to look under a microscope and see
if the cells that we're working with hold
HL60 cells.
You have to make sure that the cells aren't
contaminated.
We're working the hood which is a sort of
sanitary place where the cells won't get contaminated.
We try to keep it as sterile as possible.
All these cells, all these three flasks here,
are full of cells.
Basically what I'm doing is, this is called
cell medium, and it basically allows the cells
to grow healthily without overgrowing.
If we can somehow reverse effects and somehow
maybe use mirror 181C to target leukeimic
cells and essentially eliminate them from
the blood cells, that would be a huge medical
breakthrough.
When I first came here I didn't really know
that much about hematology in general.
I just had the basic high school biology,
chemistry, and physics, but you know, working
here, I've been exposed to so much.
I've been exposed to hematology.
Leukemia.
Working with medical research.
You know, it's just an experience that you're
not going to find in a high school setting.
This is something you really have to go out
and try to get yourself.
I also thought it would set me ahead when
I applied to college and eventually to medical
school.
To get experience of what it's like to actually
work in the medical field.
Everyone in the lab has been extremely helpful
with me to sort of find the best way to be
efficient and to transfect the cells efficiently
as possible.
We just did cell transfection and it worked
really well.
The results from the PCR were pretty good,
not as good as I hoped, but ...
So it's been key to collaborate with them,
because they have the best understanding of
which methods to use, how they can help me
the best.
I'm really passionate about medicine.
I'm really passionate about the fact that
you can help people so much in this industry.
I really think that if you're open and you
really want to work and you really want to
understand everything that you work in, in
the field that you work in, you'll be able
to learn so much, and you'll be able to excel
as you can go essentially anywhere.
"